---
title: "CSI5180: Topics in Artificial Intelligence"
excerpt: "Semantic web technologies (RDF, RDFS, OWL). Ontology and knowledge base development.
Data integration and normalization. Ontology matching. Semantic Web access through SPARQL
queries. Semantic Web expansion from unstructured data (text), including Named Entity Recognition,
Entity Linking and Relation Extraction from textual data. Question Answering over Linked Data. Data
availability, redundancy, contextualization and trust."
collection: education
permalink: /education/csi5180
---

## Description

Semantic web technologies (RDF, RDFS, OWL). Ontology and knowledge base development.
Data integration and normalization. Ontology matching. Semantic Web access through SPARQL
queries. Semantic Web expansion from unstructured data (text), including Named Entity Recognition,
Entity Linking and Relation Extraction from textual data. Question Answering over Linked Data. Data
availability, redundancy, contextualization and trust. [Source](https://catalogue.uottawa.ca/search/?P=CSI%205180%20Topics%20in%20Artificial%20Intelligence)

## Content

**Professor**: Caroline Barrière

**Grade**: A

### Projects

A hands-on approach to the course was emphasized, with the majority of the coursework being assignment-based. These assignments were substantial and interesting, covering topics such as:

1. RDF and `SPARQL`
2. Ontology Design
3. Ontology Reasoning and Matching
4. Ontology Learning

### Presentations

The course also included two presentations. The objective of the first was to explore any tool or public work related to the semantic web, RDF, or `SPARQL`. I chose [pbprdf](https://github.com/andrewstellman/pbprdf), an open-source project providing access to NBA play-by-play data in turtle format that can easily be queried in SPARQL. My page for this presentation is [here](/talks/2019-02-csi5180).

The objective of the second was to present a summary of a conference tutorial from a recent instance of [ISWC](https://iswc2019.semanticweb.org/) or [ESWC](https://2019.eswc-conferences.org/). I chose [_HybridNLP2018 - Tutorial on Hybrid Techniques for Knowledge-based NLP_](https://github.com/HybridNLP2018/tutorial), which discussed the augmentation of word embeddings with external, structured knowledge sources. My page for this presentation is [here](/talks/2019-04-csi5180). 